New .NET AI chat app template quickstart (#44988)
dotnet/docs: docs/ai/quickstarts/includes/ai-templates-azure-openai.md

---
ms.date: 2/21/2025
ms.topic: quickstart
ms.custom: devx-track-dotnet, devx-track-dotnet-ai
author: alexwolfmsft
ms.author: alexwolf
---

## Prerequisites

* .NET 9.0 SDK - [Install the .NET 9.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)

> * Visual Studio 2022 - [Install Visual Studio 2022](https://code.visualstudio.com/) (optional)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Visual Studio 2022 - [Install Visual Studio 2022](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/) (optional), or
* Visual Studio Code - [Install Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) (optional)
  * With the C# DevKit - [Install C# Dev Kit extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-dotnettools.csdevkit)
```

## Install the .NET AI app template

The **AI Chat Web App** template is available as a template package through NuGet. Use the [`dotnet new`](../../../core/tools/dotnet-new-install.md) command to install the package:

```dotnetcli
dotnet new install Microsoft.Extensions.AI.Templates
```

## Create the .NET AI app

After you install the AI app templates, you can use them to create starter apps through Visual Studio UI, Visual Studio Code, or the .NET CLI.

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

1. Inside Visual Studio, navigate to **File > New > Project**.
1. On the **Create a new project** screen, search for **AI Chat Web App**. Select the matching result and then choose **Next**.
1. On the **Configure your new project** screen, enter the desired name and location for your project and then choose **Next**.
1. On the **Additional information** screen:
    - For the **Framework** option, select **.NET 9.0**.
    - For the **AI service provider** option, select **Azure OpenAI**.

>     - Make sure the **Use managed identity** checkbox is checked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Make sure the **Use keyless authentication for Azure services** checkbox is checked.
```
